How to become a SDET?
“You can’t continue testing manually, the way that it always had been done when you have an enterprise that’s moving at the speed of light” - Jennifer Sepull, former CIO, USAA, Kimberly Clark, American Honda
Organizations and enterprises are evolving at a fast pace. The need for rapid release of products is unprecedented. Software testing as well as software development, form two of the crucial phases in the lifecycle of software making. This testing can be conducted in a manual as well as an automated fashion; however, given the shortcomings of manual testing, there is an increasing demand from Automation Testers to write automated checks and consequently of individuals who are able to play the role of testers as well as developers. Consequently, the demand for Software Development Engineers in Test (SDET) is spiraling at a swift rate and it is important to understand how to become a SDET as one opts for this lucrative career opportunity.

In this blog, we will try to answer the question of how to become a SDET by understanding a SDET’s Roles and Responsibilities as well as the learning road map of Automation Tester.

What is SDET?
SDET Roles and Responsibilities
How to become a SDET: Skills Required
SDET Learning Path
Future of SDET
How to Become a SDET: Things to Learn
Conclusion



SDET Roles and Responsibilities
The prerequisites to become a SDET include the nurturance of skills which would be suitable for the performance of definite responsibilities which correspond to the position of an Automation Tester.

In the capacity of a SDET Engineer: SDETs possess engineering skills along with testing ones. Consequently, they happen to be involved in data design, product design as well as user interfaces.
In the capacity of an Automation Tester: A SDET’s Roles and Responsibilities include the automation of as many scenarios as possible. This implies that they are required to build robust and high quality test automation solutions for conducting different types of tests.
They act as customer spokesperson: SDETs try to understand the requirement for a product from the perspective of the customer and since they are involved at every stage of its development, till its final release; they are the best advocate who can justify the need of the software.
In the capacity of a designer: The road map of SDET career includes participation in architectural design discussions and help in providing effective feedback.
Linkage: A SDET Roles and Responsibilities include maintaining technical communication with the partners so that the organization is better able to understand the needs of the customers. On the same note, they are also responsible for investigating customer problems.
Functional and Non-Functional testing: Automation Testers are responsible for testing the functional as well as the non-functional aspect of a product. While testers are generally responsible for testing the functionality of a product; SDETs are responsible for paying attention to such issues as well as the security of the application, the absence of any hacks which could be misused and so on.
Open Mindset: As an Automation Tester, it will be important for you to be adaptive. You should be receptive to and willing to learn about the changing technology as well as new scripting languages and automation tools which would help you in undertaking testing.
An Inquisitive Bent of Mind: There cannot be a predetermined chart of a SDET Roles and Responsibilities. At times, they are required to go beyond their assigned activities and dive into the unknown. As an Automation Tester, they should be continuously engaged in thinking of ways for reducing the effort involved in as many tasks as possible through automation.
Communication Skills: The position of a SDET is located somewhere in between a developer and a tester. This means that a SDET is not only responsible for conducting tests, but they are also required to produce test strategies and bug reports. In order to ensure that these are easily understandable. SDETs should possess excellent verbal and written communication skills.
Team Player: Collaboration is one of the key skills of an individual in the capacity of a SDET. SDETs cannot blindly automate tests. They need to collaborate with other key players like manual testers, developers as well as product owners and business analysts, in order to develop a viable strategy for automation.
Time Management and Organization Skills: When you try to figure out how to become a SDET, you should be aware of the fact that besides being lucrative, a SDET’s job is demanding as well. It is important that an Automation Tester is able to efficiently manage the workload, displays high productivity and has excellent time management skills.

The  end